A review for Bioshock 2 from the insightful mind of a highly professional member of Metacritic. 10/10

0 for treating us like idiots.. AGAIN! ---- YOu thought they would have learned but it appears not. I have seen reports around the net already that PC widescreen users are once again SOL. 2K are you a bunch of monkeys? This game repeats all the same technical problems the first game had, that the 'community' helped you fix. And you throw it all away at the first hurdle with ridiculously cheap/outmoded 'vert+' 4:3. haha Don't play multiplayer with anyone on a 4:3 they will have massive advantage as they can see more in the Z Axis (up down) which is a proven advantage. Widescreen done correctly barely provides and advantage as X axis to the sides is not as big a show stopper. Simply can't believe they did this, even worse they lied again in the pre release blurb, saying that all aspect ratios were catered for! I've not seen the game myself yet but head over to wsg forum or google it if you are concerned about this silly developer not even remembering the s-storm their first game created. IT DOES NOT WORK ON A PC MONITOR 2 FEET IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE. Forced low FOV like this is ergonomically wrong and for many, a down right enjoyment killer. A total bunch of muppets working at 2k. First game was bad, almost excusable as these monkeys weren't tipped off yet to what other companies like Crytek and Valve already knew and were doing correctly, but to repeat the same mistakes all over again? Clowns, liars, lazy people god I hope this game bombs. see the 2 links to compare 4:3 with widescreen. If you just don't 'get' what all the fuss is about you really should go read up and start demanding proper respect. Does anyone even use 4:3 now that matters? http://img5.imageshack.us/i/98963547.png/ 4:3 Note the shots. the 4:3 is 'as envisaged' by the devs, it shows a nice scene, plenty of immersion due to feeling 'in the game' because you have visual room to breathe. http://img22.imageshack.us/i/65311755.png/ WS 16/10 16/9 Then look at the widescreen shot. What real devs do is correct the projection matrix to take this into account.. the WS screen should show EXACTLY the same top and bottom as the 4:3 screen, with a little extra on the sides to take into account the shape of the monitor. However what it does instead is use the same 'width' of the 4:3 and simply CROPS the picture and top and bottom, thus losing immersion, ergonomics and environmental depth. You feel like you are 'stuck on' the screen rather than surrounded by a game. It runs much deeper than this but as I said I can't believe 2k of ALL devs are repeating this basic school boy error again. They really are cheap hacks. Worse is that they didn't take WS users seriously. Those WS users who say 'so what, I don't care' well done you are part of the problem. Lets hope you never want to play on a triple surround screen set up because i'd love to see you squinting at games that fake widescreen like this. Anyone who is playing in widescreen, be aware you POV is no aprox 1 foot in front of your body, zoomed in, sickening to some but for me personally I don't like what it does to immersion. And don't believe anything the devs say about 'artistic vision' because it's clear their 4:3 is so different and actually looks 'better' because it has z-axis breathing space. I really think someone at 2k should use all the massive profits from the first game to invest in some MODERN monitors over at the dev offices, they wouldn't need us players to keep doing their job for them then.
